Z
During a speaking engagement coinciding with an appearance of the Bolshoi Ballet, pacifist Deputy Z., the target of a right-wing military conspiracy, is assassinated by homosexual reactionaries Vago and Yago, and Z.'s supporters are brutally beaten by thugs before indifferent police. When an autopsy discloses that Z. was not killed by a hit-and-run driver, but bludgeoned to death, the deputy's supporters demand an investigation.In response, seemingly apathetic local authorities appoint as investigating magistrate a career civil servant, who, to the surprise of all, proves to be incorruptible. In his investigation the magistrate is assisted by a fiercely independent journalist and by a courageous eyewitness, the casket-maker Nick. Although Nick is offered bribes by civil authorities, he refuses to change his story. Hospitalized as a result of an assault and reproached by his sister, Nick sticks to his story. As a result, the military conspiracy is exposed, Vago and Yago are convicted, and Z.'s party is victorious in the general election.High army officials, however, are given suspended sentences, and several months later the military accomplish a coup d'état, imprison dissidents, and interdict long hair, miniskirts, the Beatles, several major authors, references to Socrates' homosexuality, and the letter "Z," which in the ancient Greek means "he lives."This Academy Award winner is loosely based on the 1963 assassination of Greek left-wing activist Gregoris Lambrakis. A pulse-pounding political thriller, Greek expatriate director Costa-Gavras's Z was one of the cinematic sensations of the late sixties, and remains among the most vital dispatches from that hallowed era of filmmaking.
The public murder of a prominent politician and doctor amid a violent demonstration is covered up by military and government officials. A tenacious magistrate is determined not to let them get away with it.
In a mid-sized metropolis (population 500,000) in a right-wing military led country, a pacifist organization, which supports the opposition party in the government, is planning on holding an anti-military, nuclear disarmament rally. The organization's charismatic leader - the deputy - is scheduled to arrive in the town from the capital the day of the rally. Beyond the problems arranging the rally due to the probable incitement of violence at such a rally, the organization learns of an unconfirmed report that there will be an attempt on the deputy's life. The rally does happen, after which a three-wheeled kamikaze runs over the deputy, who eventually passes away from his injuries. The official report is that the incident was a drunken accident. In reality, the deputy's death was murder orchestrated by the secret police, the general for who likens the pacifist organization to mildew killing off agricultural crops. A magistrate is assigned to the case. Although he does have political views, he is more interested in finding out the truth, and as such has to wade through the political rhetoric and politically motivated testimony he hears. Thrown into the mix is a photojournalist who too is looking for the truth, as it, he believes, will make a great front page story.
In a northern Greek city in the 1960's, a leading opposition politician is attacked while his party is holding a rally. The dead man's party was against foreign intervention in national affairs and was seen as a threat to national security. The cover-up begins almost immediately with the police claiming the dead man was struck by a drunk driver. A prosecutor assigned to the case and he interviews everyone involved, gathering evidence which shows the assassination was potted by senior policemen and right-wing extremists. Getting appropriate actions proves to be something else entirely.
Repression is the rule of the day in this film that skewers Greek governance of the 1960s. Z, a leftist rabble rouser, is killed in what appears to be a traffic accident. But given the political climate, the death of such a prominent activist raises troubling questions. Though it's too late to save Z's life, a postmortem examination suggests that the ruling party was behind his death. As the facts leak out, those who tell the truth pay the price for their honesty.
A pulse-pounding political thriller, Greek expatriate director Costa-Gavras's Z was one of the cinematic sensations of the late sixties, and remains among the most vital dispatches from that hallowed era of filmmaking. This Academy Award winner-loosely based on the 1963 assassination of Greek left-wing activist Gregoris Lambrakis-stars Yves Montand as a prominent politician and doctor whose public murder amid a violent demonstration is covered up by military and government officials; Jean-Louis Trintignant is the tenacious magistrate who's determined not to let them get away with it. Featuring kinetic, rhythmic editing, Raoul Coutard's expressive vérité photography, and Mikis Theodorakis's unforgettable, propulsive score, Z is a technically audacious and emotionally gripping masterpiece.
Costa-Gavras chronicles the overthrow of the democratic government in Greece. When a liberal politician is murdered in an attack during a peace demonstration, the right wing figures in the military and the police try to hide not only their parts in it, but also to cover up the murder as well. The magistrate acts as an investigator in order to reveal the cover up. Historically accurate, it is told as a combination murder mystery and thriller.
