Trzy billboardy za Ebbing, Missouri
Mildred Hayes drives down Drinkwater Road near her town as she passes by three vacant billboards. She goes to an advertising agency to speak to Red Welby about putting up three billboards for a year. Red determines Mildred is the mother of Angela Hayes, who was raped and murdered seven months earlier.Officer Jason Dixon is driving down Drinkwater Road when he sees two young men putting up the first billboard that reads "How come, Chief Willoughby?" He talks to a guy named Jerome, who isn't fond of Dixon due to his reputation of harassing African-American citizens. Dixon passes the second billboard that says "And still no arrests?" He goes to read the last billboard (technically first to read), which says "Raped while dying". Dixon calls Chief Bill Willoughby as he's having dinner with his wife Anne and daughters Polly and Jane to inform him about the billboards.The billboards receive widespread notoriety across town for the imagery people get from reading it, as well as what people believe to be a personal attack against Willoughby. Mildred's son Robbie is still traumatized by his sister's horrific death, and the billboards only make him more upset. Mildred even goes on live TV during a broadcast to explain her reasoning for putting up the billboards. She is essentially challenging the Ebbing Police Department, especially Willoughby, into doing their jobs instead of exercising force against minorities.Mildred is at a pool hall where a drunk Dixon is trying to get in Red's face for allowing the billboards to go up. As Dixon tries to antagonize Mildred, she is defended by a local car dealer named James, who tells her she looked good on TV.Mildred goes home to find Robbie sitting at the table with Father Montgomery. He tells Mildred that Robbie told him how other kids at school are giving him problems for the billboards. As Montgomery tries to lecture Mildred, she brings up a point over some ads that ran a while back about people who were culpable by association with gangs if their friends did anything wrong, which she compares to people from church being culpable when one of them goes around sexually harassing young boys.Mildred meets with Willoughby outside of town where they can overlook the billboards. He understands Mildred's grief and anger, but also mentions to her that he is dying of pancreatic cancer. Mildred already knows, as does most of the town.After two people issue complaints over the billboards, Mildred visits one of them, a dentist named Geoffrey. She grabs the drill from his hand and runs it through Geoffrey's thumb. Willoughby goes to the shop where Mildred works and brings her in for questioning after the incident. During her interrogation, Willoughby accidentally coughs blood in Mildred's face. She runs to get help and he is taken to the hospital.While looking in Angela's old room, Mildred has a flashback to the last time she saw her. They were arguing over Angela going out, and Angela said she hoped she would get raped on the way, and Mildred agreed with her. The thought fills her with much regret.Mildred's abusive ex-husband Charlie comes to Mildred's house with his air-headed younger girlfriend Penelope. Charlie gets into a confrontation with Mildred over the billboards for letting others know exactly what happened to Angela. He pushes Mildred against a wall while Robbie holds a knife to his throat. After Charlie lets Mildred go, he tells her that Angela had wanted to move in with him, and says she would still be alive if she did so. Charlie implies that Robbie knew. When Mildred asks, Robbie just says he doesn't know.Mildred goes to the ad agency over the rent for the billboards, when Red's secretary Pam brings in an envelope and note with the rent for keeping up the billboards a little longer. The donor of the money is kept anonymous.Willoughby takes his family out to the lake so he can teach his daughters how to fish. Later that night, he makes love to Anne. As she falls asleep, Willoughby goes out by the stable and puts a bag over his head before he shoots himself in the head. Anne hears the gunshot and finds a note on the table written by Bill, and she breaks down crying when she realizes what has happened. His note to her explains that he couldn't bear to watch her and the girls suffer as his health continues to deteriorate, and he couldn't stand the physical pain he would endure from the cancer.Everyone at the police department is devastated over what happened to Willoughby. Dixon in particular is so overcome with grief that he walks across the street to the ad agency to physically attack Red, even throwing him out the window (but not killing him). Dixon even punches Pam in the face on the way out, just as the new chief, Abercrombie is walking by.The news of Willoughby's suicide is featured on the news. When it is suggested that Mildred's billboards may have had something to do with it, she gets even more hatred from the residents in Ebbing. While dropping Robbie off at school, a student throws a can at her car. She gets out to confront the kid and kicks him in the nuts, along with a friend of his.A man enters Mildred's shop and throws a glass figurine at her. He suggests that he was a friend of Dixon's or possibly the man that killed Angela, but then he denies all of that and leaves, simply trying to scare Mildred. Anne enters moments later with a note that Willoughby left for Mildred. She reads it and learns that he was the one that paid the rent money for the billboards to keep drama going after his death.At the station, Abercrombie enters and announces that he is Willoughby's replacement. Dixon insults Abercrombie and is promptly fired.Mildred is driving home with Robbie at night when they see the billboards are all on fire. Mildred grabs an extinguisher while Robbie drives home for another. They put out the fires but the messages are destroyed.Dixon is called by the desk sergeant at the station to go pick up a note left for him. He goes at night when Abercrombie isn't there, while Mildred sneaks into the ad agency after believing that Dixon set fire to her billboards. Dixon finds the note, another written by Willoughby. It says that Willoughby knew Dixon wanted to become a detective and he believed that Dixon has what it takes to do so, but he needs to be more loving and compassionate to do so. Mildred then starts hurling Molotov cocktails at the station. Dixon gets out of the burning building while saving Angela's case file, but he gets badly burnt. Mildred runs out as James shows up to put out the fire on Dixon's body. After the authorities show up, James provides Mildred with an alibi saying she was with him. Grateful, she agrees to go to dinner with him.Dixon is brought to the hospital for his burn wounds, and is placed in the same room as Red. The former policeman gives a tearful apology, and after a few moments of anger, Red lets it go and forgives his attacker.Mildred is visited by Jerome, who has received duplicates of the billboards after the fire. He, James, and Mildred's coworker Denise help Mildred put them back up.Dixon mostly recovers from his wounds and is at the bar. The man that threatened Mildred at her store enters with a buddy. He starts bragging about raping a girl seven months earlier, which Dixon overhears and believes he is talking about Angela, especially since the guy mentions dousing her with gas, and Angela's body was burnt. Dixon approaches the guy and pretends to do a magic trick, but he just scratches the guy's cheek, leading him to start beating the crap out of Dixon until his buddy talks him down. Dixon goes home and takes a piece of skin from under his fingernail to send in as a DNA sample.Mildred is at dinner with James when Charlie and Penelope walk in. Charlie approaches Mildred and admits he set the billboards on fire while drunk and angry, but he was convinced by Penelope that "anger only begets more anger". After a while, James figures Mildred is uncomfortable with their date because James is a small person, and he leaves after paying. Mildred walks over to Charlie and Penelope's table with a wine bottle as if to use it on them, but she instead sets it down and tells Charlie to be good to Penelope.Dixon contacts Mildred with the news that he may have found Angela's killer. However, after the results come back, Dixon meets with Abercrombie to find out that the man was not Angela's killer, as he was stationed in the Middle East around the time of her murder, and the DNA samples don't match. Dixon calls Mildred again to tell her the news, both of them extremely disappointed with the results. He does note that the man is still a rapist, and Dixon got his license plate number.Mildred and Dixon head off to Idaho where the man lives to take matters into their own hands. On the drive there, Mildred admits she set fire to the police station. Dixon already knew since, "Who else could it be?" The two of them then contemplate the decision of killing the man when they see him, but they figure they'll decide once they get there.
A mother personally challenges the local authorities to solve her daughter's murder when they fail to catch the culprit.
THREE BILLBOARDS OUTSIDE EBBING, MISSOURI is a darkly comic drama from Academy Award nominee Martin McDonagh (In Bruges). After months have passed without a culprit in her daughter's murder case, Mildred Hayes (Academy Award winner Frances McDormand) makes a bold move, painting three signs leading into her town with a controversial message directed at William Willoughby (Academy Award nominee Woody Harrelson), the town's revered chief of police. When his second-in-command Officer Dixon (Academy Award winner Sam Rockwell), an immature mother's boy with a penchant for violence, gets involved, the battle between Mildred and Ebbing's law enforcement is only exacerbated.
In an effort to track down who raped and murdered her daughter, Mildred Hayes has three billboards erected outside her town of Ebbing, Missouri. They accuse the Sheriff of doing nothing to catch the killer. This causes a largely adverse, and diverse, reaction amongst the town's folk, not least of all the sheriff's deputy, the hot-headed, irascible Jason Dixon.
It's been already seven months since her daughter's hideous murder, and the divorced mother, Mildred Hayes, is still grieving, refusing to come to terms with her loss. In Mildred's case, nothing seems to be able to take away the gut-wrenching pain only a mother feels when she loses a child; however, in one of those spur-of-the-moment decisions, the plucky parent will rent three derelict billboards on the outskirts of her town, Ebbing, to declare war against the local police for failing to find the killer. No one is spared in this brave crusade, not even the ailing police chief, Willoughby, as Mildred's bold black-on-red statements demand answers and the culprit's head on a platter. Just how far is Mildred willing to go to appease her rage?
The story takes place entirely in the small town of Ebbing, Missouri, where a girl was raped and murdered a few months ago. The mother, Mildred Hayes, believes that the local police did nothing to find the killer, so she rents three billboards in order to challenge them to search deeper. This leads to many complex situations that involve tragedy, anger, hate, love, redemption and broken characters.
Mildred Hayes, a hard-nosed mother is seeking justice for her murdered daughter. With no arrests after seven months, Mildred puts up three roadside signs to goad Ebbing police chief into action. But the law - and especially Sam Rockwell's hot-headed deputy - don't take kindly to the provocation. And the townsfolk are on their side. But Mildred doesn't care about ruffling a few feathers. In fact, she's happy to pluck the whole bird.
It's been seven months since Angela Hayes was discovered raped and murdered outside her small hometown of Ebbing, Missouri. Because of what she believes is the police inaction on the case, frustrated and angry Mildred Hayes, Angela's divorced working class mother, rents the three no longer used billboards, despite the cost of the rental which she really cannot afford, on a local road just outside of town for one year, the billboards to have messages in simple, bold faced text highlighting that police inaction on the case. Mildred, via the billboards, names Chief Bill Willoughby directly as although not the lead investigator, he is the chief and the "buck stops with him". Using his name is also despite Mildred knowing what is probably the worst kept secret in town: that he is suffering from a terminal case of pancreatic cancer, his eventually passing which would leave him survived by his loving wife and two adolescent daughters. The police's lead investigator in Angela's case, Jason Dixon, is openly racist, misogynistic, homophobic and a mama's boy, who prefers to read comic books than do any meaningful work. With the billboards the highest profile action on the matter in months, the rhetoric and associated actions ratchets up on both sides with each having his or her supporters who are not afraid to show that support largely through intimidation on their own initiative. Any support Mildred gets, which does not include from her abusive ex-husband Charlie who is in a relationship with nineteen year old Penelope, is despite she not being easy to like outside of this situation, she and Angela who did not have the best of mother/daughter relationships. As both sides try to protect their position, the fact of Angela herself may get lost in the process.
